Guidance: Align language in build phase with language in map phase (#1150)
open-contracting/standard: docs/guidance/build/system_architectures.md

This process needs an adequate architecture to support it. Its design depends on several factors:

> * Whether is possible to extend existing sources, or a new sources will be built,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Whether existing data sources can be used, or new data sources need to be created,
```

> * Whether existing data sources can be used, or new data sources need to be created,

Reviewer 2: The references in this sentence are to systems for publishing OCDS data, rather than sources of contracting data.

```suggestion
* Whether existing systems can be updated, or new systems need to be created,
```

* The number and nature of the data sources,

> * The technical resources available to the publisher, like storage and processing capabilities. This includes the availability of technical personnel to maintain sources and modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The technical resources available to the publisher, like storage and processing capabilities. This includes the availability of technical personnel to maintain the data sources and modules.
```

> * The technical resources available to the publisher, like storage and processing capabilities. This includes the availability of technical personnel to maintain the data sources and modules.

Reviewer 2: As above, I think this makes more sense if we refer to systems:

```suggestion
* The technical resources available to the publisher, like storage and processing capabilities. This includes the availability of technical personnel to maintain new and updated systems.
```

This guidance describes some design approaches with their advantages and disadvantages. This is not an exhaustive list, but it can be used to inform the design of the publication system.

## On-demand transformation from data sources

> In this scenario, each data source converts data in OCDS format on demand. Data is not stored but gets converted each time a user or third party invokes the conversion process. This is the easiest path when a single source manages all contracting processes. But it involves modifications to the data source to add an OCDS conversion module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario, data from each source is converted to OCDS format on-demand. OCDS data is not stored, but is created each time a user or third-party invokes the conversion process. This is the easiest path when a single source manages the data for all contracting processes. But it involves adding an OCDS conversion module.
```

The [easy releases guidance](easy_releases) explains how to achieve a conformant OCDS implementation where it is not possible to provide a full change history.

Bulk downloads can be provided as part of the API. Live queries can stress the data sources if they need to scan large portions of data.

## Separate OCDS datastore

In the scenarios that follow, a middleware component converts and stores the data in OCDS format. This has some advantages:

> * It is possible to merge and centralize data from more than one source in a single datastore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is possible to merge and centralize data from more than one data source in a single datastore.
```

### Pull and convert

> In this scenario an automated process pulls data from data sources to the middleware system. The middleware performs the conversion to OCDS and maintains a datastore in OCDS format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this scenario an automated process pulls data from the data sources to the middleware system. The middleware performs the conversion to OCDS and maintains a datastore in OCDS format.
```

To add more data sources, the OCDS conversion module needs to be updated to pull data from the new source(s).

An important decision in the implementation is the frequency to pull data. If the frequency is low, there is a risk of losing the detail of individual changes.

An alternative to the pull mechanism is to use a push mechanism in each data source. Specific events or changes to the data would trigger a data push to the middleware. This approach can mitigate the risk of losing individual changes. But this might involve bigger modifications to the data source(s).

European Dynamics developed an e-procurement system with a similar approach for OCDS output. The system was built for the Zambian Public Procurement Agency.

### Convert and push

This scenario is a combination of the two previous scenarios. Data sources perform the conversion of data to OCDS format. They push converted data to a middleware, which maintains an OCDS format datastore. An API in the middleware system serves the OCDS data.

![Convert and Push](../../_static/png/convertAndPush.png)

> This approach puts the burden of data conversion in data sources. Yet it might be a solution for publishers with a single data source which does not store the change history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach puts the burden of data conversion on data sources. Yet it might be a solution for publishers with a single data source which does not store the change history.
```

This approach might also be suitable to combine data from many data sources. Each source becomes an OCDS publisher. The middleware becomes less complex since it only ingests data in a single format.

> The [OpenProcurement](http://openprocurement.org/en/) system adopted a similar approach. This system was developed in Ukraine and it's the base for the [Prozorro](https://prozorro.gov.ua/en/) platform. Prozorro uses OCDS building blocks as the foundation for data sources data models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [OpenProcurement](http://openprocurement.org/en/) system adopted a similar approach. This system was developed in Ukraine and it's the base for the [Prozorro](https://prozorro.gov.ua/en/) platform. Prozorro uses OCDS building blocks as the foundation for data sources' data models.
```
